# 🐠 OzFish Dataset

> [1] Saleh, A., Laradji, I. H., Konovalov, D. A., Bradley, M., Vazquez, D., & Sheaves, M. (2020). A realistic fish-habitat dataset to evaluate algorithms for underwater visual analysis. Scientific Reports, 10(1), 14671. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-020-71639-x

> [2] A. A. Muksit, F. Hasan, M. F. Hasan Bhuiyan Emon, M. R. Haque, A. R. Anwary, and S. Shatabda, “Yolo-fish: A robust fish detection model to detect fish in realistic underwater environment,” Ecological Informatics, vol. 72, p. 101847, 2022.doi:10.1016/j.ecoinf.2022.101847.

**DeepFish** [1] consists of approximately 40 thousand images collected underwater from 20 habitats in the marine-environments of tropical Australia. The dataset originally contained only classification labels. Thus, we collected point-level and segmentation labels to have a more comprehensive fish analysis benchmark. Videos for DeepFish were collected for 20 habitats from remote coastal marine environments of tropical Australia. These videos were acquired using cameras mounted on metal frames, deployed over the side of a vessel to acquire video footage underwater. The cameras were lowered to the seabed and left to record the natural fish community, while the vessel maintained a distance of 100 m. The depth and the map coordinates of the cameras were collected using an acoustic depth sounder and a GPS, respectively. Video recording was carried out during daylight hours and in relatively low turbidity periods. The video clips were captured in full HD resolution (1920 × 1080 pixels) from a digital camera. In total, the number of video frames taken is 39,766.

This dataset was not originally intended for object detection tasks, which means it did not include bounding box annotations for fish. In the context of this thesis, the same dataset used by A. A. Muksit et al. [2] was utilized. To adapt the DeepFish dataset for fish detection, A. A. Muksit et al. manually curated a subset of images, selecting those that exhibited different types of fish movement and posture across various habitats. From this selection process, they identified 4,505 positive images and then meticulously annotated a total of 15,463 ground truth bounding boxes within these images. You can download the dataset from [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/10Pr4lLeSGTfkjA40ReGSC8H3a9onfMZ0/view?usp=sharing).